So, what's the next step?
Let's try to download real
data from the server.
So here I have bad news.
The bad news is, and again,
I've been an Android developer for
ten years, and I always hated this part.
The Android ecosystem has
no automatic encloses
built-in simple solution
to make HTTP requests.
Everything that the OS is offering to
us is really low level, such as we
need to go to the network and download
the responses in chunks, in bytes.
So we need to create the buffer with
the chunks of bytes that are coming from
the TCP stack, storing that.
So it's a mess, and
we always needed a library.
There are a lot of libraries.
There is no single library that says,
this is the jQuery of Android development.
No, we don't have that.
There are so many.
I just picked one for us to play with,
and that's an external dependency.
So far, we didn't have the need for
an external dependency.
So it's the first time we're
going to add a dependency.
Where are the dependencies in our project?
If you open the project explorer,
there is a section here known as
Gradle Scripts, remember that?
On Gradle Scripts, it's funny that
there are two files with the same name,
build.gradle, okay?
Actually, remember that I mentioned
that this is not the real file system.
This is a built on file system.
They are not on the same folder, actually.
So one is for the project, and
another one is for the module,
the module is actually the real app.
So if you open the one from the module,
so build.gradle module,
there are many settings here,
such as the minimum SDK, the target SDK,
remember we mentioned that before.
And if you scroll down,
there is a section for dependencies.
So here,
this is like package.JSON on NPM, okay?
Here we can add more dependencies, how?
You need to add manually
the term implementation and
within quote the package
that you want to use.
For our case, for our project today,
we will go to the section
working with data.
No, I'm sorry, we will go to Using APIs
and JSON, Adding Dependencies.
And I have here for
you something to copy and paste.
So these are the dependencies
that we're going to use.
We're going to use actually
four libraries, Retrofit,
OkHttp, JSON Converter, and AsyncImage.
AsyncImage is a composable
that we can use to actually
download images automatically
from the server, okay?
Yeah.
>> Did you say the module is the actual?
>> The module is the app.
Yeah, because actually you
can have your project.
And then you can have an Android app for
phones.
Then a wearable app for Wear OS.
You can have an Android TV app,
all sharing the same UI elements and
business logic and then you have
several projects, several apps.
So we can have more than one
app in the same project, okay?
So I'm going to copy this part and
paste this anywhere in
the dependencies' code block, like so.
When you do that,
there is a warning here now saying hey,
Gradle files have changed
since last project sync.
So what we need to do is to sync now,
sync it now will actually,
at the bottom you will see,
will build a project and
we'll start downloading all the assets.
This is like NPM install, okay,
when you're working with NPM, okay?
After it's done, then you're
ready to use these dependencies.
So if you can build your app, so
you go to build and you make project.
Or you just build the current project or
you run it, it means that he's working.
If you don't get any errors, it means
that all the packages were downloaded,
even if you're not using them,
just because you see the app running,
it means that your packages
were downloaded correctly.